Ed Wheeler
ewheeler3@gmail.com
http://www.pelletized.com


Work Experience
New York University
Contractor | Apr. 2014 - present
Web Front-end Developer | Feb. 2011 – Apr. 2014
Developed front-end code (HTML/CSS/Javascript) and created/followed coding standards across all central NYU related web properties, including nyu.edu. Converted provided PSD's to valid HTML/CSS for both websites and for HTML emails. Created and implemented PHP scripts for assorted projects, including processing contact forms to save to a MySQL database and send emails on submission. Implemented interactive designs into landing pages throughout  nyu.edu. Created documentation for other team members detailing common processes. Assisted in QAing major project releases. Aided back end developers in troubleshooting software bugs, and resolved front end bugs. Initiated the first responsive web project for the central nyu.edu site. Created Wordpress themes for various departments.

Peterson's
Web Production Designer/Software Engineer | Sept. 2003 – Dec. 2009
Edited, created, managed and maintained HTML, PHP, and ASP pages. Responsibilities included editing pages in Macromedia Dreamweaver, Microsoft Visual Studio and Zend Studio, creation of graphics in Adobe Photoshop and ImageReady, in accordance with web design standards. Created HTML emails. Technical lead in implementing compliance to ADA Section 508, for users with disabilities. Main point of contact for all front-end design related issues. Assisted in creating and editing XSL templates for implementation of a Content Management System and other projects. Sites involved include: Thomsonpetersons.com, Petersons.com, Resumeedge.com, Essayedge.com, Cyberedit.com, and Culinaryschools.com. Maintained Drupal applications across multiple sites.

Freelance
Web/Graphic Design | Dec. 2002 - Present
Executed projects from concept to completion including websites and logo designs. Designed Wordpress and Drupal themes and sites for personal and client based work. Created and influenced projects for global brands and websites such as NYU.edu. Launched personal projects such as an Android app with over 15k downloads within the first 6 months of release in the Google Play store, and an accompanying web version. Created and designed a Twitter search web app using the Twitter API, Javascript, and PHP.

Angelmark Associates, Inc.
Web Designer | Sept. 2001 - Nov. 2002
Designed, built, and maintained websites for clients and inhouse. Responsibilities included layout of design in Photoshop, building the site using HTML, CSS, Photoshop and various other programs, and keeping up to date with any changes wanted by the client. Also assisted in the design and production of magazine ads, newsletters and logo designs using Quark XPress, Photoshop and Illustrator.

Education
New York University – School of Continuing and Professional Studies | 2012, 2013
Continuing education classes focused on design and development, with a view towards design fundamentals and user interface focused development.

Bucks County Community College | 2000-2002, 2005
Studied Graphic Design with an emphasis on Web Design and Development. Completed a certificate Web Design program in courses dealing with HTML, Javascript, DHTML, Photoshop, QuarkXPress and other applications. Additionally, completed a 2 month long intensive course on PHP/MySQL for building dynamic websites, to further advance programming abilities.

Mercer County Community College | 2004
Studied C# and the .NET framework with an aim to enhance programming abilities.

Middle Bucks Area Vocational Technical School | 1996
Completed a 3 year drafting and design program focused on computer aided design.


Skills
Advanced proficiency in HTML/HTML5 and CSS/CSS3, well versed in all common web development applications and processes.
Designed numerous web sites from concept to completion, including all design and programming, both while employed at companies and for freelance work.
Assisted in constructing web standards and best practices for large company web sites.
Created HTML for email newsletter campaigns.
Led training sessions of CSS and best practices with web developers and other technically minded people.
Restructured pages using semantic HTML/CSS to boost search engine rankings (SEO)

Technical Experience &
Program Knowledge
HTML/HTML5 (advanced)
CSS/CSS3 (advanced)
Photoshop for web (advanced)
Notepad++, Sublime Text and other text editors (advanced)
Responsive Web Design (intermediate)
Javascript (intermediate)
jQuery (intermediate)
HTML Email development (intermediate)
Wordpress (intermediate)
PHP (intermediate)
Git/Github(intermediate)
Adobe Illustrator & Creative Suite (intermediate)
Sass (novice)
Angularjs (novice)
MySQL (novice)
Java/XML for Android Development (novice)
Subversion (novice)
